LDAP 3.5 in New Template (#1850)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: ldap/3.5/modules/ROOT/pages/ldap-connector-examples.adoc

NOTE: The custom truststore feature is not FIPS compliant.

To set up a custom truststore:

. Follow the steps in the previous example.
. Add these properties to the `mule-artifact.properties` file to hold your LDAP credentials:
+
[source,text,linenums]
----
config.principal.dn=<DN>
config.password=<Password>
config.url=<URL>
----
+
. Place the `mule-artifact.properties` file into the project's `src/main/resources` directory.
. Locate the following element in the XML code:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
 <ldap:conf name=:LDAP_configuration" doc:name="LDAP Configuration"
 .
 .
 .
 </ldap:config
----
+
. Overlay the located element with the following code:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<ldap:config name="LDAP_Configuration">
  <ldap:tls-connection
    authDn="${config.principal.dn}}"
    authPassword="${config.password}"
    url="${config.url}"
    trustStorePath="path_to_truststore_jks_file"
    trustStorePassword="changeit" />
----

[[run-time]]
=== Test the App

To test the app:

. Save the project.
. Run the project as a Mule app.
. Send a PUT command to this URL:
+
`+http://localhost:8081/?dn=dc=mulesoft,dc=org+`

> 

Reviewer: not necessary, but maybe add a section for the final XML for this example?

> = See Also

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== See Also
```

> https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]
```

> = LDAP Connector Connector 3.5 Examples - Mule 4

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
= LDAP Connector 3.5 Examples - Mule 4
```

> The following examples show how to use LDAP Connector to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example set shows how to use Anypoint Connector for Lightweight Directory Access Protocol Connector (LDAP Connector) to:
```

* Add a group and user to an organizational unit and then delete that user and group
* Set up a common truststore

[[add-delete-entry]]

> == Add and Delete Groups and Users from an Organizational Unit

Reviewer 2: Can you think of a way to balance "delete from" with the implied "add to"?

This example shows how to use the LDAP *Add entry* operation to add a group and user to an organizational unit and the *Delete entry* operation to delete a user and group from that organizational unit.

The following screenshot shows the Studio app flow for this example:

image::ldap-usecase-flow.png[Flow for adding and deleting users]

> === Add a User to an Organizational Unit

Reviewer 2: In all previous texts, we mention "groups" before "user," which I found a little less intuitive than the opposite...and here we document the user part first. So, consider reordering the names of things added and deleted to match the order in which we document the actual tasks.

> To add a user to an organizational unit:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To add a user and group to an organizational unit:
```

. Create a new Mule Project in Anypoint Studio.

> . Add these properties to the `mule-artifact.properties` file to hold your LDAP credentials, and place the file in the project's `src/main/resources` directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Add these properties to the `mule-artifact.properties` file to hold your LDAP credentials: 
```

+
[source,text,linenums]
----
config.principal.dn=<DN>
config.password=<Password>
config.url=<URL>
----

> +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Place the `mule-artifact.properties` file in the project's `src/main/resources` directory.
```

. In Studio, click *HTTP* and drag the *Listener* source to the canvas.

> . On the Listener properties window, change the display name of the *Listener* source to `HTTP`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In the Listener properties window, change the display name of the *Listener* source to `HTTP`.
```

. Click *+* next to the *Connector configuration* field to add a global element.
. Accept the defaults.

> . On the Listener properties window, set the *Path* field value to `/`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In the Listener properties window, set the *Path* field value to `/`.
```

. From the *Mule Palette* view, select *Core* and drag the *Transform Message* component next to *HTTP*.
. In the *Output* section, replace the existing text with the following DataWeave script:
+
[source,java,linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
output application/java
---
{
	dn : "ou=DevOpsGroup," ++ attributes.queryParams.dn,
	ou : "DevOpsGroup",
	objectclass : ["top", "organizationalUnit"]
}
----
+
. From the *Mule Palette* view, select *LDAP* and drag the *Add entry* operation next to the *Transform Message* component to start adding an LDAP group.
. Click *+* next to the connector configuration field to add a new global element.

> . Configure the global element according to the table below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Configure the global element as follows:
```
Avoid "below"

+
[%header%autowidth]
|===
|Parameter|Description|Value

> |Name|Name of the configuration.|`LDAP_Configuration`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Name|Name of the configuration|`LDAP_Configuration`
```

> |Principal DN|User distinguished name (DN).|`${config.principal.dn}`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Principal DN|User distinguished name (DN)|`${config.principal.dn}`
```

> |Password|User password.|`${config.password}`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Password|User password|`${config.password}`
```

> |URL|URL that connects to the LDAP server.|`${config.url}`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|URL|URL that connects to the LDAP server|`${config.url}`
```

|===
+
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect to the LDAP server instance.

> . If the connection is successful, click *OK* to save the configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Process connection results as follows:
.. If the connection succeeds, click *OK* to save the configuration.
```

+

> Otherwise, review or correct any incorrect field values and test again.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. If the connection fails, review and correct any incorrect field values and test again.
```

. Return to the LDAP Connector properties window and configure the parameters required for the *Add entry* operation:
+
[%header%autowidth]
|===
|Parameter|Value
|Display Name|`Add Group Entry to LDAP Directory`
2+|Basic Settings
|Connector configuration|LDAP Connector global element that you created previously
2+|General
|Entry|`payload` (the default value)
|===
+
. From the *Mule Palette* view, select *Core* and drag the *Transform Message* component next to *Add Group Entry to the LDAP directory*.
. In the *Output* section, replace the existing text with the following DataWeave script:
+
[source,java,linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
output application/java
---
{
	dn : "cn=Test User,ou=DevOpsGroup," ++ attributes.queryParams.dn,
	uid : "testUser",
	cn : "Test User",
	sn : "User",
	userPassword : "test1234",
	objectclass : ["top", "person", "organizationalPerson", "inetOrgPerson"]
}
----
+
. From the *Mule Palette* view, select *LDAP* and drag the the *Add entry* operation next to *Transform Message* to start adding an LDAP user.

> . In LDAP Connector properties editor, configure the parameters as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In the LDAP Connector properties editor, configure the parameters as follows:
```

+
[%header%autowidth]
|===
|Parameter|Value
|Display Name|`Add User Entry to LDAP Directory`
2+|Basic Settings
|Connector configuration|LDAP Connector global element that you created previously
2+|General
|Entry| `payload` (the default value)
|===

=== Delete a User and Group from an Organizational Unit

> Now that you have successfully added a user and group to an organizational unit, try to delete them using LDAP Connector:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you successfully add a user and group to an organizational unit, delete them using LDAP Connector:
```

. From the *Mule Palette* view, select *LDAP* and drag the *Delete entry* operation next to the *Add User Entry to LDAP Directory* on the canvas.
. In the LDAP Connector properties editor, configure the parameters as follows:
+
[%header%autowidth]
|===
|Parameter|Value
|Display Name|`Delete User Entry from LDAP Directory`
2+|Basic Settings
|Connector configuration|LDAP Connector global element that you created previously
2+|General
|DN|`#['cn=Test User,ou=DevOpsGroup,' ++ attributes.queryParams.dn]`
|===
+
. Drag another *Delete entry* operation next to the first one to start deleting the LDAP group entry.
+
[%header%autowidth]
|===
|Parameter|Value
|Display Name|`Delete Group Entry from LDAP Directory`
2+|Basic Settings
|Connector configuration|LDAP Connector global element that you created previously
2+|General
|DN|`#['ou=DevOpsGroup,' ++ attributes.queryParams.dn]`
|===
+
. Drag the *Transform Message* component next to *Delete Group Entry from LDAP Directory*.
. Set the payload to "Flow Successfully Completed".

=== Test the App

To test the app:

. Save the project.
. Run the project as a Mule app.
. Test the app by sending a PUT command to this URL:

> +

Reviewer 2: correct formatting?

`http://localhost:8081/?dn=dc=mulesoft,dc=orgrequest to <url>`

> === XML for the Adding and Deleting Groups and Users from an Organizational Unit Example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== XML for the Example
```
Avoids the order issue and the to/from issue.

> Paste this code into your XML Editor to quickly load the flow for this example use case into your Mule app:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Paste this code into your XML Editor to quickly load the flow for this example to your Mule app:
```

		<ldap:delete doc:name="Delete Group ENtry from LDAP Directory" doc:id="892dca59-86a3-40a2-b758-09560fb95383" config-ref="LDAP_Configuration" dn="#['ou=DevOpsGroup,' ++ attributes.queryParams.dn]"/>
		<ee:transform doc:name="Transform Message" doc:id="5dc391aa-87b1-4e84-97e5-71dc5f8daa22" >
			<ee:message >
				<ee:set-payload ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/java
---
{
}]]></ee:set-payload>
			</ee:message>
		</ee:transform>
	</flow>
</mule>
----

[[set-up-common-truststore]]
== Set Up a Common Truststore

This example shows how to change the previous example so that it has a TLS configuration that uses a custom truststore.

NOTE: The custom truststore feature is not FIPS compliant.

To set up a custom truststore:

. Follow the steps in the previous example.
. Add these properties to the `mule-artifact.properties` file to hold your LDAP credentials, and place the file in the project's `src/main/resources` directory.
+
[source,text,linenums]
----
config.principal.dn=<DN>
config.password=<Password>
config.url=<URL>
----

> +

Reviewer 2: ditto prev. edit suggestion to split into two separate steps

. Test the app by sending a PUT command to this URL:

+

> <<<<<<< Updated upstream

Reviewer: May need to delete lines 154, 156, 157, 158
